We've used the word definitive a couple of times in the last couple of minutes here.
It's my hope and belief that once this bibliography is published it will become the definitive work in the sense that it will be cited.
You know how the citations, guns and
You're right, there's hundreds of them.
And she's alive, by the way.
Really?
Look at this.
As we speak, Carol comes walking out with an armful of these huge loose-leaf notebooks, I would say probably 12 inches high at least.
This is a sample.
This is benign fanaticism?
I like that.
Well, that's a gentle madness.
That's right.
There you go.
I coined a phrase for this.
Nice phrase.
And she has it.
Nice term.
Everything is beautifully organized.
Connie, this is my wife I'm talking to right now.
Look how beautiful she's.
My wife is organizing my stuff.
What I have done is every time I have received a letter from an author, illustrator, or even from a university library, I have made a copy for my own files, put it in glassine, so it's as perfect for the next person seeing it as it was for me when I received it in the mail.
And something we really didn't touch on, I think that what I'm doing is trying to preserve this for future scholars.
I think that
will be a lot of interest in the literature of the 30s and 40s as time goes on and this will have give people a chance to read what the authors and the alice critics themselves had to say oh you're doing much more than that this would and you're coming along at a time when there's not much time left a lot of these people uh you're you're losing we're losing them waters in particular you mentioned
You got there precisely at the right time, undoubtedly.
Several others do have done since.
Can you figure that out?
You know, the one I want to... I did this last week, and it was getting out of an alphabetical order.
Well, they've always been alphabetical order, but... Here's Jim Dunn.
Here's the guy who wrote the Allagash, Lou... D-U-N-N Dunn?
Yeah.
Lou Deeps wrote...
She even saves the envelopes that the material comes in, everything.
Lou Dietz, who wrote The Allagash, wrote, and this is back in probably 1991, Dear Carol Fitzgerald, enjoyed hearing from you.
Writers aren't supposed to retire, but I must confess that I have.
At 85, even typing has become a chore.
I'll try to answer some of your questions.
I was active in main democratic politics back then.
It was Ed Muskie who suggested I do the book on the Allagash.
Ed promised to write the foreword.
The only other edition is a paperback issue by North Country Press, Thorndike Maine.
As I recall, a proposal and early chapters were submitted to Holt.
The project was accepted.
This was handled by my agency in New York.
I knew Maine's North Country, and I'd run the river a number of times.
At the time, I was working for Field and Stream.
Also, I'd written several books for...
young people, the Maine woods.
In any event, the Allagash appeared to be an ideal project for me.
Not much else I can tell you.
Trust is helpful.
That's great.
Ed Muskie was a base graduate.
Yeah, and a great American.
Got a great American.
It's a tragic life in a way, really.
Who made the fatal mistake of crying.
Yeah, like a German man cries.
Like I started crying just now, thinking
He was being attacked by the Manchester Union leader.
That was a great man.
And he cried and it killed him politically.
Do you know the name Frederick Gouton, by any chance?
He wrote Beacon Tomic.
You might not, but he was...
This is all correspondence that you've exchanged with these offices.
Exactly.
Now, you asked for some other names.
There's one at Gutham.
How do we spell?
G-U-T-H-E-I-M.
First of all, Frederick with a K?
Frederick with a K. Yes.
G-U-T-H-E-I-M.
And he wrote which book?
The Potomac.
Oh, the Potomac.
He had a major effect on the architecture of the city of Washington, the metro system.
He was a distinguished city planner.
He's one of the...
Godfathers in modern-day Washington, D.C.
Carol, have you read all these books, all 65?
No.
Do you read any of them for pleasure?
I will tell you that we were in Norway this past summer.
We had a three-week vacation in Norway, and I knew that my gallery talk at Vanderbilt was looming.
You might take these two books back.
I feel uncomfortable having this tape recorded on top of them.
It was September 15th, and I felt that if I was going to speak at Vanderbilt University, I should have read Donald Davidson's two volumes on the Tennessee River.
So we are going through the fioris of Norway, and we're just admiring the scenery, and I'm desperately reading the two volumes on the Tennessee, and then on the flight back I read Goodread to Kentucky by Dr. Clark.
No, I have not read it.
Obviously, this has taken on an energy of its own.
I mean, it's certainly not a passion for the content, or is it a passion for the content?
Not particularly.
I think it's a passion for the project is what it is.
And I try to familiarize myself with the contents of the books, knowing that the writers put a great deal of effort and time into writing.
But my energy has been important.
and making sure that I'm preserving what I can.
Wow, that's so great.
And is this something that more or less developed as a conceptual thing for you?
At what point did you say, I'm doing something scholarly and very important?
I think that when I started receiving responses, such as this from Frederick Gutine, and I realized how important these people were in their crimes,
that I had history to preserve, and I really had an obligation, not only to these people who were dying, but I had an obligation to scholars, future scholars, to present this, or to preserve it somewhere.
So it would be a biography of Good Time.
He was that big person in the Washington Post.
He died in Washington Post.
Somebody will come along.
If they're smart, they'll come along and they'll look at this correspondence.
Now let me ask a question.
From the Washington Post.
A Guiding Light of Architecture.
And that's... The New York Times.
What's the date of the obit?
October 4, 1993.
So that one you just kind of got made, didn't you?
Yeah.
And how old was he at his death?
85.
I had two people die.
The Mohawk, written in 1949, I believe, was written by Codron Husslup, who was the University of Chicago, and illustrated by Lothario Calafon, who was a very accomplished artist from the Chicago area.
They both wrote to me letters, and they both died, so I was able to meld the two into the book, and I would have missed them.
And they both have stories to tell me.
May I do this, just for the enduring value of this, because I love this woman so much.
It'll take 30 seconds on your tape.
This is the way Marjorie Stoneman Douglas opens her book, The Everglades.
Chapter 1, The Nature of the Everglades.
Part 1, The Name.
There are no other Everglades in the world.
They are, they always have been, one of the unique regions of the earth.
remote never wholly known nothing anywhere else is like them their vast glittering openness wider than the enormous visible round of the horizon the racing free saltness and sweetness of their massive winds under the dazzling blue heights of space they are also unique also in the simplicity the diversity the related harmony of the forms of life they enclose
The miracle of the light pours over the green ground expanse of sawgrass and of water shining and slow-moving below.
It's poetry, really.
Exactly.
The grass and water that is the meaning of the central fact of the Everglades of Florida.
It is a river of grass.
Wow.
Yes.
That lady is our patron.
Thank you.
I love those concluding lines that always
just capture it.
I don't need this one.
I was giving it to Alderaan.
I hope it's easier to say.
I've also... No, that's irrelevant.
Let's go ahead.
I was going to say something that's not relevant.
No, we should.
Go ahead.
I was just going to tell you, I've also been collecting photographs of these people.
So you're building an archive.
Let me ask a question.
What do you foresee
donation of the books and all these papers to an invitation.
I'm not sure where, but it would have to be someone or someplace that would guarantee that they are not going to break up the publishing history of the series, that everything is going to be available.
I don't think I could do what I have done again.
The books simply don't exist.
I've got feelers out all the time.
You can get the first edition
but you could not find all the subsequent printing.
Just make sure, take it for one, that you get that very clearly stated in writing.
And if they break it up in any way, the whole collection reverts.
In your book, there is a library.
Well, that's Samuel Pepys, and there's a fellow, and I'm writing about for this new book, Lloyd Coatsen.
who has given this enormous library to Princeton.
It's all children's books, and the story behind that is unbelievable.
He owned the Neutrogena Company, and he just sold it for a billion dollars.
But his wife and his son were murdered in 1979 by somebody who was stalking him.
And his life, basically, you talk about having everything but having nothing at the same time.
And what he's doing is creating this library in memory of this child and the wife, and it's gone.
And the deal is, and he said he took this out of my book, if they don't do what he wants with the collection at Princeton, he's pulling it out and giving it to UCLA.
And I'm sure he has the best lawyers in the world working on that.
But this is such an important archive.
You really have to make sure.
It'll become more important with time.
Right now is still fairly modern.
Of course, but that's the measure of a great collection.
Yeah, exactly.
Now, I'm sure that the Library of Congress must be wooing you.
John Paul was very honest with me.
Not that they wouldn't want the books, but he told me that they would separate the correspondence
and my files from the books he said that's just the way they do things i don't think that would be conducive to doing a litter um you know we might be in adjacent rooms you know i don't know i think they're in separate parts of the library the truth is the broward county library is desperate i like the broward county here the library we love the library of the year 1996 in the united states would
very much like to have this whole collection.
Very much.
And it would also be, I'm certainly not trying to, you know, my sense is that this would be the cornerstone collection, whereas at the Library of Commerce they have 120 million items, and things get lost that day.
We know that.
They lost the map of the Rivers of America.
You don't even know about the map.
It's right there.
They get lost and they get stolen.
I'm just saying that off the record, you know, but...
This would be one of many, many, many, many, many, many collections.
That's right.
It'll be a success.
But the main thing is I don't know if our library here can handle the volumes over the years if we're fairly small.
You also want to scrawl the apparatus, so you have to balance things.
You have to show them our professionals.
We'll handle it.
Oh, we'll get a color line?
Okay.
I think you might come in here and call.
Thank God you had this tape recorder.
Well, I'm glad we had a few.
Batteries, huh?
Are you recording?
Yeah, I'm on.
I'm just going to... This is the working mess.
Uh-huh.
These are my files.
I work in here all the time, so I haven't, you know, neatened them up, but everything is sort of... What do you need to read?
And this is the manuscript here, as I'm working on it.
Double shelves.
I know that I have... You found the pink...
These pages are the final draft and the white pages are... When are you projecting a completed manuscript?
It could happen this year.
Oh, really?
So you're that close?
It's pretty close.
We're just going through, doing some final editing.
We're making sure that we have all the information and making sure that it's accurate.
Here are the American Life series.
There's the American Folkway series.
These were all published about the same time.
The Murder series.
Now, was this a similar formal series, the Lake series?
Yes.
I see Marjorie Kinnon Rawlings, Cross Creek.
Now, I notice you have Mark Twain.
That must be, you know, Life in the Mississippi.
Now, that clearly was outside of the...
The boundaries of the... Here's a really sick collector.
This is mine, not hers.
Oh, I see.
I have all of the libraries.
I have every library.
You have an open, really sick collector.
But we collect a lot of things.
I mean, not just the river.
But before you get away from Ceres Americanans, if you want to see some really beautiful books, look at these.
These are the ports.
I don't know what the series was called.
Seaport series.
And let me, which is one?
They're all good, aren't they?
So we see Baltimore.
We see the Northwest Gateway.
We see the Port of Gloucester.
We see Golden Gate, which is San Francisco.
Look at the books.
They are beautifully made.
Are these carols or yours or both?
These are carols.
Look at this.
They are magnificent.
We should point out that you are a retired naval officer.
I am.
So there is an interest here, I assume, in...
But I've also been working in the maritime industry since I retired in 1974.
I see.
In one connection or another.
Basically doing what kinds of things, might I ask?
Well, right now I'm in a shipping company that operates chemical carriers, petroleum tankers, harbor togs.
The home office is here.
Many of our vessels are in the Gulf of Mexico.
We have one here, the pamphlet from the 1500s.
computation with Daniel Johnson.
This is a 17th century book.
Yeah.
And what does this fit into?
Nothing.
We're not really going to do that.
We have, everything's triple shelves.
Oh, yeah.
I do have a complete set of every book that Carl Hyasson has written, and they're all signed and inscribed to me.
This goes back to when he was going to write it.
It's Hillary Masters book right there.
Inscribed.
Yeah.
He's given me good information on his father, and he's been very kind.
I have an inscribed copy of that as well.
He was a writer of residence at Clark University, so I interviewed him when he was there.
I have a fairly substantial reference library for writing and art books and books on the Depression era.
I have found that in any other room I have a lot of them.
There's still some Federalist projects behind here somewhere.
It's something else that we've gotten into, Carol's gotten into.
You see this book on the Potomac.
That is not Gutheim's book, the Potomac.
You see this book here, this line here, the Illinois River.
This is not part of the series of America, rivers of America.
That's the juvenile.
But it's a juvenile.
It's based on that.
Uh-huh.
So it's important.
River for America series for young readers.
Right.
So you'll certainly have to mention that then, won't you, in some way?
And I have my friends at the National Art Club who keep feeding me information.
And they're ready to, he said, your book party will be a super hit.
They're already giving me a book party to make sure it's a club.
You know where that is?
That's great.
I don't.
I know where that's, that's where the Players Club is.
Right next door.
Okay, yeah.
So anyway, this is, this is the, the working room here.
This is great.
So Updike is here because you like Updike, I guess.
We sort of started collecting Updike and then
Gave it up, I think.
Well, you have rabbit... Yeah, we've got the rabbits.
Do you have the rabbit runs?
No, we don't.
That sprung's about $7.50.
I interviewed John Updick about two months ago, and I brought along my rabbit run to have him inscribe it.
So that gave it a little kick, didn't it?
Henry Pitts was one of the illustrators.
P-I-T-Z, Henry C. He's still the illustrator of the Allegheny, but of course here he's writing about...
Right.
And all sources that are used in these biographies, Carol's right, are credited, of course.
But there's a nice interlife there between one of the illustrators.
I just picked up lithographs of still Wind and Rock a couple of weeks ago.
Anyway.
There are some Gale research books up there.
I see.
You don't have to take them down.
I know them.
There's an ancient book.
That's the history of book publishing in the United States.
I finally found that.
Oh, it's Belker.
It's not Gail.
I'm sorry.
There's a Joseph Heller, a very fine book dealer in Washington, D.C.
He sponsored the Brolier Club.
Can I understand your opinion?
I just became a member last year.
Remembers.
It's wonderful.
I went to the dinner a couple of weeks ago, my first one.
I loved it.
We went through separate checks.
Really.
For both members separately.
Amazing what they put you through.
Really, really.
I was just, I said, is this worth this?
They kept asking me about the collection.
We had to go in and be looked at and examined.
I don't know what they're looking for.
The cut of the jib, I guess, is basically what it was.
It was one of my early loves.
John O'Hara.
You would make, are you familiar at all with the American Aquarian Society, which I was elected to last year, which has made lots of American history, which cuts off in 1876.
Otherwise, this would be wonderful.
That's about when the National Arts Club building was built.
It was the residence of Samuel Tilton.
Samuel Tilton.
Now, how many lake books do you have?
I see Lake Ontario, Lake Pontchartrain, Lake Huron, so you have them all.
And how many were there in the series?
Eleven.
And what were the years for that?
They were in the 40s.
I haven't done a lot of research on this series.
It's kind of hard to find that substantial.
But was the concept similar, or was it just kind of a derivative thing?
The concept with the rivers is terrific, the fact that how the civilization and the culture grew.
I think that those were just...
Something that made sense, yeah.
I think a lot of stuff came out of the Federal Writers Project.
We know Stetson Kennedy, who wrote this book in the American—what's the series called?
American Folkways.
We know Stetson quite well.
He exposed the Klan.
He wrote a book called I Wrote with the Klan.
Oh, I know that book.
He's an amazing man.
And he says, he worked on the Florida State Guide with Sora and Neil Hurston.
They worked together collecting folklore.
And Stetson, who's the real character, said, he said, hell yes, it came out of the Federal Artists Project.
We began looking at the country, began writing about the country.
And what I've noticed, by the way, that there seems to be a good balance between men and women.
Absolutely, yes.
Women were writing it.
They truly were.
You mentioned Hurston.
Were there any blacks who were African-Americans who wrote in this series?
No, no.
Not a woman.
I don't know.
And I wasn't sure what I was looking for at Faith Barnes.
I know.
That's what I was going to say.
Faith Barnes was the last... I'll take you whenever you're ready to go.
No, I want to take some pictures.
Faith Barnes was the last editor of the Rivers of America.
She edited this book.
I'm on straight American duty.
They have a home.
I see it's a home.
Now this map is, oh, we have a map of the history, lore, and legend of the rivers of America and of its people told in a series of books edited by Stephen Vincent Benet, accent on the E, and Carl Carmer, C-A-R-M-E-R, and published by Farah and Reinhardt-New York.
That's wonderful.
That is really a 1942 map.
This is a photograph of a photo paper, but it was a paper map that was produced to promote the series.
That's a facsimile of the map?
That's pretty good.
What's the origin of a facsimile, Mrs. Fitzgerald?
Well, it came from Cleveland Public Library.
It was used at the Vanderbilt exhibit in September.
So they actually commissioned that to illustrate the exhibition, is that right?
and then we have the ultimate ephemera search for curalists to find one of these because there were probably thousands of them sent out to book dealers all over the country but the problem with ephemera is that it was ephemeral right remember your days on the bridge when you looked in the ephemera that's right I'm going to shoot a couple pictures I have a sense we're going to have to
I'm just going to let this run.
Gary Wills is coming to Boston for his new book.
Which is what?
It's about John Wayne, believe it or not.
What is that stuff there?
That was a heavy thing.
It wasn't a gun.
When I graduated from Ole Miss, I worked briefly for
some of the electronic personnel assistants there doing all their female hiring and their psychological testing.
You know, back in those days we used to use the Wanderlick test.
Remember that, Bunny Charm?
No.
The Wanderlick test was a test that determines your intelligence level.
There was a Stanford Binet, I remember that one.
It would be illegal.
by today's employment standards.
I hired the backing people and the young executives.
I worked there for a couple of years until my first child was born and then I didn't work again until I was divorced in the late 70s and took a job with an aerial photography firm which I had for about
nine months, going up in helicopters.
I was Dr. Photography.
I was sitting in the middle, passing the flight instructions back and forth, but there were no doors on the helicopter, and I got very scared.
I know the sensation.
I used to go up on the helo often, the plane guard helo, for launches, and I used to just hang out the
We'd go in there shooting pictures or whatever.
In Vietnam, I used to hang out almost horizontal.
Let's take a few pictures, if we might.
I'd like some singly and together, if that's okay.
I'm not sure I have any official connection with the Georgians.
Let me go out the script and go watch some pictures with you.
My wife is my editor, too.
That's nice.
I'm a little tighter here.
That's her problem she sometimes looks like.
I do, I do.
What's the little tense?
Do you realize, Carol, some of your vests firsts are down on that chair.
Do you care?
No.
For pictures?
I don't think so.
I like that.
Let me just get a long shot.
Miss Ole Miss.
This picture's great.
Ole Miss.
Nice blush.
Do you have color film in there?
Of course, it's all I do.
I can tell by the way you caressed the camera.
I shot most of the pictures in Gentle Madness.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Oh, this is great.
This angle here is terrific.
Oh, good.
Gene, can you have something with you?
Sure.
Carol?
You know they say you should never ask the Texas cattleman how many carols he has, how many spears.
You know what I'm getting at?
Oops.
That was good.
I like that.
What, land around it?
Yeah.
Okay.
I like it.
That's good too.
That's what I'll send you.
How about in the other room when we work?
I can tell you're talking.
You're like the maniacs from the next year.
Quick, quick, quick, quick, quick.
Well, we have to do a graphic for the sexual hours here.
Four hours.
Oh, yeah.
When they come up and I did an interview with some kinds of kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing, some kind of writing.
You don't spend a minute doing this.
I think it's been a year since four hours, and I think one of the percent of my tickets was 45 seconds or 55.
Do you know what I'm going to figure out?
He doesn't put cash in the kitchen and put it in front of the sun and get 400, 400, 4,000.
I'm not going to be able to do that.
Oh, because it makes it so it's going to be tough.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah.
Where else from?
Bill Stoddard and his own art book.
I love you.
This air is more than 100 years old.
I like it.
I have a problem with him.
The only question is this.
I suppose I was a 50-year-old.
You need the desk.
My desk.
The desk is an hour and a half hour.
I bought a 25-lb surplus.
I had to repent.
Maybe, but it might have been a second.
The drivers go all the way back to here.
They're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than, they're more than
What do we know about the books you're working on?
Do you know what's happening?
Um, the public panel.
Any part of the panel, but, uh, there's not plenty of things like that.
It's full of culture and libraries, which has food libraries.
I really want to check them.
I'm trying to do things that I enjoy.
Um,
You can see the photos, the leopard photo book, and it's a full mask, you know, of leopard times.
Oh, sure, I know the woman who shot the one.
He looked up in Chinese.
In fact, I was going to get some of her pictures in my book, but she wanted $150 a picture, you know, even 50 or 60, 60 seconds.
Speaking very well, this is the take on Gary Wilson in one week.
It's an incredible question.
I think it's all Gary Wilson books as we share them.
You know there's a lot of times.
So we were looking at them, life-wise, and instead of, uh, the motor wheels are a little closer to the moment.
More like this.
I am, uh, next picture of you, but you have a major of it.
That's it, hold on to the left.
The reason I brought up the cattle, you know, I just looked at how many cattle birds, how many birds, how many birds, so I didn't know how to read that.
But I wonder if you have, how many passages of General Netanyahu have been sold?
That's sold in two different states.
We have close to 60,000 in French.
And that's bad for us.
The radio is very excited all the book.
It's incredible.
Yeah, it's wonderful.
My first edition here came to me via William Scheide.
Really?
And this is a long story.
You know Mr. Scheide?
No I do not.
But I do know in my
The man who has kept my feet to the fire is Alexander McLeod.
He's a doctor in Nashville.
And Mr. Scheide is Dr. McLeod's mentor, good friend.
Dr. Alex and Dr. McLeod spend their time at Scheide's home when they're in the area.
He's a Princeton graduate.
This came to me last year for Christmas, and you had signed this.
You had signed one for Alex MacLeod also.
Okay.
You probably, you know, you don't, it wouldn't mean anything to you, but I'm pretty sure that this is, this is how I got this particular copy.
So, and this copy, we were at Henry Holden Company, and Perla, Uriel Kaplan's suite secretary, came out with a couple of these.
Well, good.
The second.
The second is still pretty good.